Computation Conjecture

This conjecture, or bold guess, is based on a simple idea: to making progress on fundamental ontology, or exploring the true nature of existence, we can use lessons found by studying computers. That's the idea. I'm claiming computers hold insights that can illuminate the cosmos. There are many beliefs about the fundamental nature of the universe, for some matter is all there is, for others mind is fundamental, and still for others God is answer to the final question. I seek to harmonize these positions. We'll start by exploring the transitive properties of computation and how they can interact with physics, argue why physicalism is false, show a harmony between mind and matter, showcase a few thought experiments for depth, and make conjectures about the true nature of reality.

Since we've had computers for a while its easy to take their lessons for granted. Many, including me, wait for the next technological breakthrough: AGI, quantum computing, matieral sciences, robots, or fission. Yet, have we understood the meaning of what we already have? I don't think so. For example, my children love to play Minecraft. In September 2010, "theinternetftw" built a 16-bit ALU (Arithmetic Logic Unit) inside of Minecraft. That was the first computer built within Minecraft. In 2021, the most famous Minecraft example, Sammyuri developed "CHUNGUS 2", an 8-bit computer that can play games like Snake, and later in 2022 the same group built a 2D Minecraft within Minecraft. The point here is simple: these are computers within computers. For students of computers, this is the Universal Turing Machine proposed by Alan Turning in his 1936 paper, "On Computable Numbers, with an Application to the Entscheidungsproblem."

> Claim #1 - Computers support arbitrarily nested computers.